What is ecosy:-
An ecosy (or ecological system) consists of all the organisms and the physical environment with which they interact.[2]: 458  These biotic and abiotic components are linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows. Energy enters the system through photosynthesis and is incorporated into plant tissue. By feeding on plants and on one another, animals play an important role in the movement of matter and energy through the system. They also influence the quantity of plant and microbial biomass present. By breaking down dead organic matter, decomposers release carbon back to the atmosphere and facilitate nutrient cycling by converting nutrients stored in dead biomass back to a form that can be readily used by plants and microbes.
ecosys are controlled by external and internal factors. External factors such as climate, parent material which forms the soil and topography, control the overall structure of an ecosy but are not themselves influenced by the ecosy. Internal factors are controlled, for example, by decomposition, root competition, shading, disturbance, succession, and the types of species present. While the resource inputs are generally controlled by external processes, the availability of these resources within the ecosy is controlled by internal factors. Therefore, internal factors not only control ecosy processes but are also controlled by them.
ecosys are dynamic entities—they are subject to periodic disturbances and are always in the process of recovering from some past disturbance. The tendency of an ecosy to remain close to its equilibrium state, despite that disturbance, is termed its resistance. The capacity of a system to absorb disturbance and reorganize while undergoing change so as to retain essentially the same function, structure, identity, and feedbacks is termed its ecological resilience. ecosys can be studied through a variety of approaches—theoretical studies, studies monitoring specific ecosys over long periods of time, those that look at differences between ecosys to elucidate how they work and direct manipulative experimentation. Biomes are general classes or categories of ecosys. However, there is no clear distinction between biomes and ecosys. ecosy classifications are specific kinds of ecological classifications that consider all four elements of the definition of ecosys: a biotic component, an abiotic complex, the interactions between and within them, and the physical space they occupy.